Hi friends, welcome to the Data Science Hangout. If you're joining us for the first time today,
it's nice to meet you. I see a lot of familiar faces, so I know a lot of you have been here
before. The Data Science Hangout is an open space for the whole data science community
to connect and chat about data science leadership, questions you're facing, and what's going
on in the world of data science. The sessions are always recorded and shared to YouTube
as well as the rstudio Data Science Hangout site, which we can share in the chat here
too. So you can always go back and re-watch or find helpful resources too. We do also
have a LinkedIn group for the Hangout if you ever want to continue a discussion with someone
or ask feedback or see a summary of the past week's sessions. I will encourage people
to post in there and start conversations so it's not just me talking there, but together
we're all dedicated to creating a welcoming environment for everybody. So we love when
everyone can participate in these sessions and we can hear from everyone, no matter your
level of experience or the area of work that you focus on. There's always three ways that
you can ask questions. So you could jump in by raising your hand on Zoom. You can put
questions into the Zoom chat and feel free to just put a little star next to it if you
want me to read it out loud instead, or I can call on you to introduce yourself and
add some context too. We also have a Slido link, which I'm sure Hannah is sharing here
in the chat, where you can ask questions anonymously too. I am so excited to be joined by two co-hosts
for today for the first time ever. Today we are joined by Derek Beaton, Director of
Advanced Analytics, and Jamie Beverley, Director of Product Development at Unity Health Toronto.
I would love to have you both introduce yourself and maybe tell us a little bit about each
of your roles, the organization, and maybe also something you like to do in your free
time outside of work. Derek, do you want to start first?
Sure, sounds good. So I'm Derek, the Director of Advanced Analytics in a group here called
Data Science and Advanced Analytics. The overall group, and I'm sure Jamie and I will share
different details on this, it's a data science unit in Unity Health Toronto, which is three
different hospitals here in the city. We have four different teams across the Data
Science and Advanced Analytics team. Advanced Analytics is the team I'm part of, Jamie's
is the Product Development. We have a Data Engineering team and a Project Management
team. For Advanced Analytics, my team uses lots of exciting tools, less exciting tools,
to understand data, bringing predictive analyses to different clinical problems or different
resource problems in the hospital, scheduling assignments, alerting, a whole bunch of different
things. And we're diving into kind of new domains, including medical imaging and a few
others that we can chat about in a little bit. Yeah, and then I guess for me, stuff
I like to do, I like to go running, I like to go hiking. My internet right now is probably
very bad, because I'm actually at a cottage and I'm about to go hiking after this.
So far, so good, but I'll let you know if it gets choppy. Thanks, Derek. Jamie, do you
want to introduce yourself?
Sure, yeah, thanks. Yeah, I probably don't have a ton to add to the broader structure
of our team. So I'll talk to my particular team, the Product Development team, which
is in Data Science and Advanced Analytics. So our team is more focused on the software
engineering and design side of things, so not so much data science. But once we have
a model that's developed by Derek's team, how do we get that model into production and
into a frontend that our end users use? So for doing that, we work a lot with sort of
HTTP APIs, like wrapping models in Plumber or Flask or FastAPI, and then building frontends,
Shiny or React or some of the other platforms that are supported on RStudio Connect. And
then we also do some design work, so creating mockups that work with our end users to converge
towards the design, if that makes sense. About my sort of like background and interests,
I was more sort of on the humanities and cultural studies, science and technology studies side
of things in school, and then pursued a master's in computing to get more oriented towards
the software side of things. So where those kind of meet now, I feel it's in the computer
interaction. And then in my free time, I spend a lot of time with music stuff. I have a lot
of synthesizers beside me here that are quite visible.
Cool, thank you both. So I know this is the first time we've ever had two leaders on together,
so I thought it might be good to ask how both of your teams work together and how you
started to have this great relationship, and why it's so important that both of you are
on the Hangout together.
We actually have three of us here on the call. We've got someone in the audience here as
well. I can maybe start there. So Derek mentioned we're kind of comprised of four teams, which
starts at our data integration and governance team, which is led by Shetland here. So composed
of data engineers, ETL developers, data governance specialists, all the folks who know how to
get the data from a very messy legacy source systems into a format that's accessible for
both modeling and for real-time applications. And then once we have data in those formats,
that's where Derek's team does all the work on the modeling side of things, so training models
on top of that, and analytics and reporting. And then once we have a model that's ready
for deployment in a production application in one of our hospitals, that's where
my team comes in to build those front-end applications. And then there's a fourth team
that's composed of project managers that keep us moving on all pieces. Derek, did I miss anything?
No, that covers it. That's really, yeah. I guess one point to add to the project management team,
our VP Mohamed is frequently reminding us that data scientists aren't good at the
management part. So the project management team are fundamental to making sure we can get done
what we do. That's great. And Sevnam, I didn't know you were joining us as well. A special
welcome to you. Thank you for joining from the team as well. If you want to jump in and introduce
yourself. Yeah. Well, I'm not one of the speakers. I'm actually here to listen, but I was pulled.
Hi, my name is Sevnam. I'm the Director for Data Integration Governance at Data Science and
Analytics. I work with Jamie, Derek, and our indispensable project management team.
Yes, Derek is right, and Mohamed is right. We need somebody to keep us in sync. Otherwise,
we would probably fall apart. What I want to add to Jamie's really good summary is that
the things he talked about, like getting the data modeling and then front-end development,
it kind of looks like a linear process, but it's not actually. There is a lot of overlap. So as
soon as we start looking at the data, Derek's team starts looking at the modeling possibilities,
while Jamie's team starts looking at the deployment options. So we kind of work
in parallel, and it's the project management team that actually kind of makes the pieces click
together. So that's why we have to keep in touch all the time with great communication.
That's great. It's a party here. Everyone's here. Thank you for joining as well. I see
Niall, you asked a question in the chat. Do you want to jump in and ask that?
Sure. It's pretty simple, but maybe you can go into some more depth. I'm just curious about
how your teams are managing MLOps. You've got these models in production.
How are you monitoring them? And then does the user development and product development
teams play a role in creating that monitoring process, or is that fully with the advanced
analytics group? I'll jump in for part of this. So on a lot of the monitoring side, we have,
I think a lot of it is on our side for now, where we have a lot of reports that come out to us.
We're building a dashboard to actually centralize all of our different deployments, so we can watch
what's happening with data, model performance, any sort of drift or changes. I would say for a
lot of the MLOps type things, we're mostly focused on the practice as opposed to any particular tool
sets right now, but we are trying to rally behind quite a few tool sets. I think a lot of these are
largely out of some of the movements we've seen recently in Vetiver and the other RStudio
packages that are coming out from Julia, where monitoring models, getting model cards,
and having these quickly accessible to us is where we're moving. And we're moving in this
direction because I think there's been a significant expansion in a lot of what we do
across a lot of different data sources in the hospital with a lot of different problems,
whereas like earlier on, I think before my time, and maybe someone else wants to jump in on this
one, a little bit more focused on subsets of problems and subsets of systems. Yeah, I don't
know if that really answers your question, but I'll toss it over to Jamie and Shabnam too to jump in.
Mostly process-oriented right now, but rallying behind tools.
Yeah, I would echo, I think, what their sentiment was there. I think we're kind of
growing in that domain still and figuring out what that looks like for us. And I think
simultaneously, partly overwhelmed, skeptical, and excited by all the things out there.
Lots of things that run on a Kubernetes cluster that we don't really have the
use case to have a massive Kubernetes cluster. That said, I'd say we have a pretty core set
of requirements for most of our projects where we have a model, we want to version that model,
we want to save predictions, all the predictions that that model generates. We typically want to
save some data alongside that model. We want to have monitoring on all the predictions that
model generates and saves to a database. And we want to host those models behind some
HTTP API, typically. So those set of criteria, I think, are good criteria for engineering a
system that can handle our use cases. And then we have a set of requirements that we want to
have. But yeah, I think a lot of the tooling, some of the tooling that we've seen out there
is either run on a large Kubernetes system that we don't have a use case for.
So I don't know, we've been building some things in-house. Also, I think, exploring
better recently. I think it might be helpful to all put us in the mindset of the problems
that your team is working on. What is an example use case across the hospitals?
Let's start with one of our flagships, ChartWatch. So it's an early warning system for deterioration.
That, from the advanced analytics side, so that one, models were developed a while ago.
They were wrapped up for Jamie's team to help deliver alerts. We get our pipelines from
Shabnam's team. And then on the monitoring side, we have fairly frequently updated reports
on what is happening, when alerts are sent out, or what kind of model performance we're looking at.
So a bunch of different metrics to see how this early warning system is actually
working on a regular basis. And can you just expand on it for me?
What does the early warning system mean? So if individual patients are potentially
deteriorating, this will send an alert off to clinical teams that are set up in the alert
system, or those that are there that day, to get an alert that a patient needs more attention.
Okay. So that's taking all the data from Shabnam's team. Your team is working
on creating that model. And then Jamie's team is deploying that model. Did I get that
workflow right?
We've got a few other cases, too, which are... So I'd say there's a suite of tools we have that
are around this kind of alerting about a patient use case. We also have a few that are
more focused on optimization models, like generating schedules for nurses. Very complicated
and tool-laden task. And we optimize that to reduce the number of times a nurse is assigned
to the same location, as an example. So optimization models, working on medical imaging as well.
So detecting intracranial hemorrhage, and DICOM images, traumatic brain injuries,
traumatic brain injuries, other projects.
Yeah, and a kind of suite of other ones that work more on the chart record.
That's really interesting. I see there was a Slido question about the early warning
flagship product. What kind of models do you use?
Are these some calculated metrics, or some kind of predictive models?
They are predictive. There were a whole bunch of candidate ones a long time ago, and then we
landed on one of the best performing ones. And fairly recently, this early warning system has
been moved away from us and to a company that we're collaborating with. But it's predictive modeling.
Thank you. Mark, I see you just put a question into the chat. Do you want to jump in?
Sure, yeah. I was just wondering, I know from personal experience that healthcare is pretty
slow to update to more modern tools. So we end up with a lot of technical debt. I'm wondering
how you, can you go into more detail about how you integrate some of those legacy systems with
some of the more modern tools that you're using? Is it like workarounds, or is it
kind of like pipelines into? Just kind of wondering what your approach is there.
I think I'd better jump in at this point. So yeah, our hospital systems are very fragmented,
and no, we are not on Epic. So we don't know if these things play nice or not. We're going to find
out in a couple of years, I hope. We are looking for a new EHR. We don't have one yet. So may or
may not be Epic. I'm not really sure. Right now, what we have is pretty old systems. And
we started, we actually started the journey by having coded pipelines, where code was attached
to the modeling code. So the first piece of code goes into the systems, pulls data, merges it,
cleans it up, and then passes it to the model, which was not really good, honestly. Because
the same kind of information, say the patient's temperature, is relevant to like 10 different
models. So we would be pulling that same temperature for 10 times for each patient,
which overwhelmed our already old and overwhelmed systems. So a year and a half ago, I guess, we
invested in a logical data warehouse, a data federation system, where we pull the data,
cache it for a little while until the next pull, until the next scheduled pull. And all of the
models are getting their data integrated, cleaned up, harmonized data from the logical data warehouse,
the federation system. Does that answer your question?
Yeah, so it's kind of, just from understanding, it's kind of like a staging
warehouse in between. Sort of, yes. So it's a, it's a smart AI supported, actually,
smart federated system. So it optimizes queries on the go, we can pull data on the fly for not
so frequently used systems, or cache the data for the systems that we use frequently. And we can do
and we can do all kinds of data haggling in there. So yeah, you can call it a staging
layer between the actual data and the models.
Great. I see, Travis, you had a similar question or a follow up question.
I know the part about Epic was answered, but do you want to jump in?
Yeah, like Mark, asking from a place of experience with a couple of large hospital
systems where Epic or Cerner type products don't tend to integrate well with more modern
applications, like RStudio products, let's say, or even, you know, Flask type Python things.
And so we've had ML teams trying to produce outputs, sounds like you solve the input problem
well enough with like this sort of staging area. That's, that's a cool solution, because that was
another thing. You can't really hit the live database of the EHR system, because that's
needed for inpatient care. And if you hit it with a large model, things will fall over and bad
things happen. That's cool, staging works. But then once you produce the model, how do you get
it back in front of the care team, like the physician or the coordinators? If it's not on
fire for like, like a pop up firing thing inside of Epic, or other EHR system, they tend not to see
it. And they tend definitely not to want to go to, like a second browser window or somewhere else to
find information, because they simply don't have time for those things. So how do you, how do you
solve like the accessibility portion in the clinic side?
A few thoughts to add to that. I think an unsolved issue for us as well. We try a lot of different
things for different projects, and a lot of it is kind of project dependent. So yeah, our older
legacy systems, we, it's typically pretty hard to get any kind of data into the systems. So there
are times we have to, we do have to provide a separate website that, in some cases, we can link
from the EMR. In some cases, we can actually embed kind of actions within the EMR. So if they,
we're exploring, we're doing this for one of our medical imaging projects, actually, where
if a radiologist is within a viewing facility, and they're looking at a patient, and they're
within a viewing, tool viewing, a CT scan, they can hit a shortcut on their keyboard,
or right click and click a button that will open with context to our website.
And then that's a domain we can control. But it's, I think, an uphill battle constantly.
Alerting is especially perhaps challenging, because there's, there isn't really a consistent
alerting approach across the organization. Some units of the hospital have, you know,
designated cell phone that they provide to the lead nurse for a shift. On another unit,
they don't have that. Or it's, you know, the resident has an application on their
personal phone that's rated to, for, you know, secure information, and we could target that.
But it's very heterogeneous. I think that's something we try to,
it's very hard to build like engineering instructions around that.
I guess one other tool we've been developing over the last year and a half, it's called
our Operation Center, which is kind of an in-house hospital command center type tool,
similar to some of the market products that are out there. So it's a place that folks in the
hospital can go to see patient flow information where patients are being admitted, discharged,
transferred, census of current patients and their needs, which is all fed from the EMR systems,
but it's our own front end. So we've kind of developed that as a front end platform where
we're hoping to centralize a lot of our analytics outputs. So it's not two different dashboards you
have to go to for your, for our like data science outputs and predictions, but can be at least just
kind of one centralized tool. To add like a little bit more to that too,
we work really closely with the individual like clinicians or clinician groups that,
or other staff on understanding what might work. So there is a lot of customization that will come
from like Jamie's team. And in other cases, sometimes it's really tricky to get say like
some other website or some other awarding mechanism that's outside of the EHR. So
we call in for help from other teams that will help handle like what this means for
individuals with these deployed tools. So how do you get everyone up to speed? How do you get them
trained? How do you get that information back out there? And we also rely on basically
kind of leaders that are on the other side of these projects. So the people that come
to us with these projects kind of have to be the champions to then get everyone in their
units or their groups to be on board with what will actually go in place.
Yeah, that's a interesting point. A good workflow it sounds like because on the other end,
if you, on the data science side, it seems to me if we see problems that we know we can solve,
and then we solve them, then you have this extra layer of work to be done, which is
go around and champion it to everyone and advertise it. And I don't love being in
marketing as much as just solving people's problems that they know that they have.
I think that was a topic a few weeks ago, how you also have to kind of be the salesperson
for your own tools. I see, Alan, you had a question, and I agree with you. Yes,
the range of these cases is really fascinating. Do you want to jump in and ask that?
Yeah, sure. Hey, everybody. I think I'm mostly just reacting to the breadth of things that you're
describing that the team works on from stuff that's operational to like really like much more
deeply clinical stuff and then super technical stuff like imaging, and it's a really impressive
range. And so I wonder, you know, I imagine that there's a lot of people that are in the
team, and so I wonder, you know, I imagine that within the team, you probably don't have the like
domain expertise to be really deep in a lot of those things. So how do you get the partnership
that you need? And this may stem from, this may sort of bounce from, you know, the last
comment that Travis was making about, you know, champions of the work and stuff.
So what does that partnership look like? And what does, because there's, it's something to have so
many customers, understanding like who to work with and when given limited resources, I've got to
think is a challenge sometimes. So this probably gets to the project management team that you work
with, but also speaks, I think, to like, how are you situated in the organization such that you're
the place where the work comes to, like at the right time, you know, strategically, how does that
work? You know, thinking just all those aspects of like how do you operationalize projects coming in
and doing work that people need?
So I'll speak a little bit about some of the data and analytics part where,
so on the team, actually across like several of the teams, we do have some
like subject matter experts that have experience on the other side of data science.
So we have like a really diverse group of people that have a lot of experience in this domain.
And I guess going back to the previous point about the partnerships, when
clinicians or staff or other individuals in the hospital, in the network come to us,
we require really like a lot of time and we spend
quite a bit of time like working out the early parts of the project,
frequent working group meetings to make sure that both sides are in very frequent communication
to ensure that the technical, the clinical, the operational sides are all
in touch and actually understand the problems with the data, the problems that we're trying
to solve and say some of the challenges of bringing some of these things to deployment.
And like another small note here too, I guess, building off of like the breadth of stuff here,
we all kind of have like little mini teams inside our teams too.
I think it's fair to say sometimes the mini teams are like one person,
but we have like little mini teams of expertise within each of the teams.
I'll just maybe add to that briefly.
So just to call it explicitly, like all the projects we work on
originate from our end user groups, from those clinical champions.
So we have like an intake process, an intake form.
So our end users come to us with this form filled out where we ask,
you know, what's the current state?
Like what's the problem you're trying to solve?
What's the desired future state?
What kind of metrics would you measure to say whether we've improved on something
or if we've gone the opposite direction and made it worse?
And then where data science fits into that, it's not all projects are solved of data science.
I think that's kind of a bit of a luxury to have because we don't have to,
well, we have very engaged clinical end users and
we don't sort of have to do that sales pitch at the end of a project.
As Derek said, there's lots of time vested from the clinical side to lose
inherent interest in seeing a successful deployment as we get there.
I may add a few points about the prioritization part you asked.
So we are a strategic part of the hospital.
We are not research.
So being in the hospital as a part of the hospital puts us under the mandate of the
strategic objectives of the hospital.
So when we're deciding on prioritizing the pipeline of work that is coming to us,
as Jamie and Derek mentioned, we take into consideration stuff like feasibility and things,
but then we also evaluate them based on the strategic goals of the hospital.
And then we have two criteria.
Are we improving patient outcomes or are we improving hospital efficiency?
If a project does none of these, we just don't touch it.
That's great.
Thanks for all of those.
I really appreciate all those different lenses on that process and hearing more about the
organization and how things work.
It gives me a bunch to think about with respect to our teams here.
Thanks.
Yeah, I thought that the outline there is really helpful, too, like how you get the
projects from the clinical champions, like what's the problem you're trying to solve?
What's your desired state?
I see there was a Slido question from a bit earlier, anonymous one.
Could you give us some idea about the scale of your operation?
So like how many models and how many data apps do you currently have in production?
Yeah, I think that's a really good question.
I think that's a really good question.
How many models and how many data apps do you currently have in production?
So our team in total is about 30 right now, that's including the four teams.
And in terms of applications, we have production, I think, like 30 or 40.
And projects on the go right now, I would say 8 to 10.
Is that about right?
That sounds about right, yeah.
And I know something that we talked about previously was one of the eye-opening moments
for you was when your team discovered you could publish React applications.
And I was just curious of the use cases that you described,
which is the one that's using that framework.
Yeah, I can speak to that.
So I kind of came from a more software engineering, like full stack background
where React is pretty ubiquitous.
We were developing this operation center project.
And we were originally developing in our Shiny, and then it felt that we wanted to leverage
some of the React ecosystem for one particular component.
We used, I forget what it is, is it Shiny widgets or something similar?
A R package that lets you author React components and bind them as Shiny widgets
to use in Shiny applications.
And we were using that.
And then that was really doing the bulk of our UI front-end complexity.
And we decided, OK, might as well just write this in React.
So yeah, I'm not sure why it took me so long to realize you could do this.
But we discovered you could deploy React applications to RStudio Connect
and have them talk to APIs just with fetch requests.
So our front-end stack now is like a TypeScript React docs front-end that makes API requests.
And we find it to be nice and quick.
Awesome.
I want to check to see some of the, for one of the Slido questions there was,
for legacy systems integration, do you depend mostly on custom scripts
or third-party platforms and add-on?
For scripting, what's your preferred language and why?
I think I can take on that.
For legacy systems, as I mentioned earlier, we are using this data federation tool.
And I think we managed to connect to almost all of our legacy systems
other than one that was very badly set up.
So even the vendors themselves couldn't figure it out.
So for these one-off cases where we can't actually use the legacy system,
we either go with R or Python go to pipelines.
Scripts that run on a server and then feed into either the model or the
logical data warehouse itself.
That's also possible.
Thank you.
Travis, I see you just put a great question into the chat there.
Do you want to ask that?
Sure.
I think we all have these.
I was asking, can you tell us a good cybersecurity says no story
and how you got around it?
This is particularly prevalent in hospital systems.
I guess without further color, I'll just leave it at that.
I'll toss over to both Shem and Jamie in a minute, but it's not many no's.
Because we do a lot of stuff completely internal.
So we're in the data center.
We're on this infrastructure that is approved by IT and security.
Where there's some no is some cloud stuff.
And it helps to have a liaison or spy, someone from our team,
tightly connected to IT and security to make sure that we know what's going on.
And we have frequent communication with them.
So who does that liaison typically be?
I like that solution.
Do you have a designated person who is, I'm the person who convinces cyber to say yes?
Yeah, actually, I have system administrators in my team, apart from IT, because
the hospital is mostly a vendor shop, but our team inside is a Linux island.
We have our own sysadmins, and one of our sysadmins has the task of
keeping our relationships with the rest of the hospital in a very pleasant level.
And you may have realized that my title is data integration and governance.
So we actually took over the data governance portion in the hospital as well.
So we are managing that.
And that kind of helps us do what we need to do in a safe and secure way, while
also helps us getting less no's.
It's extra work for extra permissions, if you want.
That's great.
I see Richard, you said you do that exact same thing.
I'd be curious to hear a little bit more from you too.
Yeah, it's very similar, actually, strikingly similar.
I'm in a large home care agency in New York City that is integrated with a health plan
and a hospice and a long-term care system that's managed at home.
And a lot of the no's that we have from cybersecurity have to do with cloud.
Having data, having to cross that boundary, get translated from one virtual environment to
another.
But yeah, so our cloud engineer on our team sits on the cloud engineering,
all of their conferences for the larger IT department.
I worked inside of a data science department in this organization.
So he sits in both roles as the liaison and keeps us on board with what their concerns
are and vice versa.
And that way, we in data science don't try to do a lot of things that we know they're
not going to go for.
And so that keeps us focused on the things we can do and kind of keeps that friction
to a minimum.
That's really interesting.
So is that, was that person originally part of your team or was originally part of the
larger IT team?
Oh, they were originally part of our team.
Yeah, we did about four years ago a big kind of lift and shift from a data center to the
cloud.
And that's the, and so we had a foot in that on both sides.
We ended up insisting on having an on-premises server for this very problem, you know, because
we knew we would have this problem and we got that.
And so I'm the person that manages that.
I'm the Linux admin in a Windows shop that manages that.
And then our cloud engineer who works with me as my backup on the on-premises server,
he manages the Linux cloud instances.
And so he's in their, you know, all their security and change management meetings.
And that's enough of a pipeline for us to kind of stay out of each other's way.
But he's a member of our team.
Okay.
Thank you.
That's really helpful too.
Robert, I see you just put a question into the chat with a few acronyms that I do not
know.
So you might have to explain them.
Okay.
I'll make it through, but I was curious if you're using any kind of about them.
If you're not using anything like that, I'd be curious to learn about what you're using.
I think it would be me again.
We do use HL7, not FHIR yet, given that they have legacy systems.
For those who don't know, HL7 and FHIR are actually communication protocols between healthcare
systems.
So it's a messaging system.
HL7 is more text-based, while FHIR is more semi-structured based JSON XML.
We do have our HL7 system, but we're not using any external tools.
We actually just grab the messages that we're interested in and parse them ourselves.
So it's in-house.
Okay.
Something that is related to those where we have some, there might be some HL7 in there.
If not, there will be FHIR in the future.
In our medical imaging platform that we're building up, we're using something called
XNet.
XNet is a big suite to help organize a lot of medical imaging data and projects.
So we have a lot of data, a lot of data, a lot of data, a lot of data, a lot of data,
organize a lot of medical imaging data and projects.
That is one very specific open source tool that we're using to communicate with the imaging
systems and the different scanners that are available.
That's not a specific messaging tool, but they have embedded in there a lot of different
messaging protocols like RISC, PACS, RISC for communicating with PACS.
I believe they're going to have FHIR in there soon, but I'm not positive.
Thank you.
I see somebody asked on Slido, I'm assuming you use the RStudio platform, but before that,
how did you manage dependencies, for example, package versions?
I think that was before my time.
Everyone was pretty good at it when I got here.
We're getting better.
Yeah, go ahead, Jamie.
Yeah, I guess, I mean, all of our R projects use RF very heavily and Conda and stuff for
Python, and again, Yarn for JavaScript.
And yeah, RStudio Package Manager as well.
I'm not sure before about RStudio Package Manager.
Sorry, I'm the oldest on the team.
And yes, we invested in RStudio very early on, so I don't think we have anything that's
not deployed through RStudio of one version or another.
We have one Docker deployment.
Cool.
We also use GitLab, like on-premise, which is kind of important for us, too, because
we can't really afford the risk of accidentally pushing sensitive things to GitHub or other
cloud-based providers.
Jamie, the audio is a little bit hard to hear, but I think maybe it's the headphones.
I don't know if you want to try unplugging or using the computer audio, but maybe it's
just on my end.
Is this any better?
Yes.
Yeah, that's a lot better.
Yeah, we use GitLab on-premise, too.
That's all I said there.
Okay, awesome.
I had a question as a follow-up from when you were talking about the whole conversation
of on-premise or in the cloud.
Are there—oh, someone's at the door.
UPS.
Are there any use cases from anybody on the call, as well, where you have both internal
applications that are behind a firewall, but then also other applications that may be
exposed to the public or other stakeholders?
Jamie might be muted.
Sorry.
I think we have one such deployment.
We developed a tool a while ago for predicting ED volumes, the number of patients waiting
in the ED, which we deployed at one of our hospitals—actually, two of our hospitals,
and then also created a deployment for a hospital outside of our network.
That's the one that was running in a Docker container in a special part of our infrastructure
that we could open up to the internet to be accessible from this other site.
I don't know much of the specifics about how all that was configured, though.
I think we had something on Shiny apps at one point, too, which was more public-facing.
Okay.
Yeah, that's really interesting.
That's a question I hear from quite a few community members.
Sorry, Derek.
The Shiny app one, I think, was more of a calculator, right?
So, I don't know if it actually had any data.
I think you could provide your own data to it.
That being said, I do think there are some things coming up in the future where we might
see some things that become semi-public-facing.
Stay tuned.
Okay.
Thank you.
And will those live in a separate EC2?
You're not on EC2.
I don't know.
Architecturally speaking, how does that happen?
Because, Rachel, that's a great question, and it's definitely one of the
cyber-says-no areas that I've never found a good solution to in a hospital system.
They usually say, even if there is no data in this application, we can't make it outwardly-facing
because it's running on our servers, which then do connect at some point to our data.
So, they want to stand up a whole new infrastructure to host, in some cases, what is an entirely
computational simulated calculator or something like that.
So, is that what you all's strategy is, or is it different?
Correct me if I'm wrong, Jamie, but I think our public-facing or external-facing
applications are running on a VP LAN.
I think that's correct, yeah.
I'm sorry, I don't know any more details of that.
No, no worries.
And just curious, what was the term you said?
It's VP?
So, it's a virtual private LAN.
Okay.
So, IT and security manages it to their own satisfaction, and we make use of it.
So, reducing the friction between us.
I see.
Thank you.
Does that operationalize?
It's like a highly restricted IP, a set of IP addresses that can access the application.
Is that how that, I don't know that much about that particular framework.
Well, neither do I.
We should have my sysadmins, one of my sysadmins at least here, but I think you are correct.
I can connect you to our sysadmins if you're more interested in learning more, though.
That's interesting.
Yeah.
So, it sounds like not fully public facing yet, like where someone could go to a URL
and actually attempt to log in and fail if they don't have the credentials.
It's actually, they have to be IP whitelisted first.
I think it's not only IP whitelisted, but also has authentication tied to it,
but I'm not really sure about the details.
Interesting.
Thanks.
I'd be happy to help connect you offline, too.
I see there was a few other anonymous questions I wanted to make sure I got to as well.
Thank you.
Thank you all for your insights.
One is, if you would split your projects into analytics versus predictive modeling
versus one-off reporting and analysis, what would those percentages look like?
So, I can repeat those two.
So, analytics versus predictive modeling versus one-off reporting.
If we go with, I would say what we're currently working on,
let's see, we have the resource ones that are one-off, a couple dashboards.
It might be a third, a third, a third right now.
Maybe before there were maybe more analytics and a few prediction algorithms
and the occasional one-offs.
But certain groups, well, so some of the one-offs are a little unfair to call one-off.
We've got like repeat projects that happen every so often
because the frequency of that kind of report.
So, like the nurse resource team we work with.
They need some type of one-off report, but they've needed it several times.
Usually as things change, as staffing changes, as budgets change, stuff like that.
Right now, I don't know.
Jamie and Shefnan, does it feel like a third, a third, a third right now
with all the new ones coming in?
Well, if you count the, you know, NIT and stuff like that as one-offs, yeah, it sounds about right.
I'd say like a lot of the projects that start off as predictive,
intended to be predictive modeling or analytics projects sometimes end up at reporting.
We kind of have two phases, two large phases to our project process
where the first phase, which we can kind of promise to our end-users that come to us
is that we'll do the diligence, explore the data, assess feasibility of modeling.
But if we end at that point and just find that there's not enough data to build a predictive model,
then that project really ends up like a report.
And we may say to the end-users too, like, you know,
if you can collect XYZ over the next year or two,
come back to us and we can try this again.
So that's sort of another factor.
The second part of our project process then would be if we have the positive signals
that a model is viable, then we go through the full process of building a product.
I know there were a few questions on model monitoring,
and there's actually another one here too.
So I wanted to mention, I just put into the chat,
but next Tuesday, we actually have a meetup with a customer, Socur,
who's presenting on model monitors and alerting at scale.
And for some of the questions asked, I thought it might be of interest.
I'll just put it there if you want to add it to your calendar.
But the question in Slido is, how do the model monitoring,
so data, model drift, look like in your work?
What tools do you use, and what kind of metrics do you look at?
COVID ruined everything.
So anything that was before COVID, COVID ruined everything.
So we see different types of drifts there.
We see it with waves.
What we're monitoring in terms of, like, metrics is more project specific.
So we don't have, like, a singular metric.
In many cases, a lot of, like, the predictive algorithms are,
it's very important to have good,
good, basically good performance to avoid, like, false negatives,
or to make sure you're capturing true positives.
So we'll focus on, like, PPV and NPV,
or false positive, true positive, false negative rates.
But there's no singular way of doing this.
It really does depend on what kinds of metrics,
and what the problem really dictates.
So we do have different ways of monitoring different models.
Which is why we're trying to bring it all into one dashboard right now, too.
That's some work we're doing behind the scenes,
where try to bring a lot of these in one spot,
so that it's a little bit more centralized,
instead of living in inside of each project individually right now.
Thank you.
I see, Niall, you had asked a really great question earlier that I missed,
and love to go back to that on the team structure,
if you want to ask that live.
Sure.
I'm interested in some of the benefits and
detractions of having the teams broken out the way you do,
if you feel like they're...
Yeah, your thoughts on it.
And also, if this is something any of you helped create,
and part of that process,
we sort of got a one-stop shop team structure.
And it sometimes works,
and sometimes I'm asked to do things I have no idea how to do.
So yeah, curious about your take.
I can add a few comments, maybe, about how it formed, maybe,
and should them check me if I say anything that's wrong.
But the team started, I guess,
four years ago, roughly.
It was primarily, or entirely, data scientists.
So I believe the original team was three or four data scientists,
more positioned within research.
And then the second team to kind of grow was Shevnam's team.
So the data integration and governments,
building out the data warehouse.
Following that, I believe,
we realized the need for project management.
And that kind of formed organically.
And then the last to join was my team,
focused on design and software engineering.
Yeah, I'd say that the structure works fairly well for us.
I'd say there are places at the edges of our teams
where I think we're still kind of figuring out what that looks like.
There's some questions about MLOps earlier,
and I think that's sort of one space that touches modeling,
it touches data engineering, it touches software engineering.
And we're not really sure where to pass that ball.
Derek or Shevnam, do you have further comments?
Yeah, I just want to add that until...
I don't know.
How long have you been with us, Jamie, Derek?
I think until that time, probably two, three years ago,
we were actually one big happy team with no distinction,
with no solid distinction between modeling
and data engineering and product development.
But then we had a lot less projects.
All of us almost were jack-of-all-trades.
But then the number of projects just exploded
once we were moved from research into the hospital,
as Jamie mentioned.
And that's when we had to kind of delineate
some of the responsibilities,
because being jack-of-all-trades
means actually you have to context switch
like every three minutes or so,
which is not productive at all.
I was brought into...
Go ahead.
Just to follow up, Shevnam,
you said it was one big happy team before,
but what was the process for splitting out the teams?
Strength.
Yeah.
Yeah, we mainly divided ourselves
based on our strengths.
So yeah, and the project management was,
at least our project manager,
who was with us from day one,
which is a really big comfort.
Yeah, absolutely.
I see Alan just commented on that too and said
it was really interesting to hear
how the PM team was relatively early in the formation.
Yep.
Definitely.
Derek, sorry, just cut you off.
It's okay.
No, I was going to say that I was brought into the team
with this structure already in place.
I've liked it.
I've liked compared to how I used to do things before,
I'd have to, like Shevnam was saying,
like do lots of things all over the place.
It's nice to have that focus.
But as Jamie said, especially around like ML Ops,
where it feels like we maybe are missing a little something
is like bridges and hooks between the teams
for like those critical points
in like development or monitoring or maintenance,
where it's good to have people that know a little bit of,
say, two sides,
instead of trying to have someone
that understands everything.
But we have quite a few people that are interested
in like crossing different domains
and expertise across our teams.
The time for more translators between everyone.
There's one other question.
I know we're just at the top of the hour.
It's okay if I ask one more.
Someone asked, curious, I think you mentioned Docker.
Do you use Docker or depends solely
on RStudio's versioning?
In which cases do you use Docker?
I can probably speak to that and start off.
So I probably use Docker as a catch-all
for application containers,
but maybe using Singularity or Optainer
or something other than that.
Where we're kind of interested and see use in Docker,
I think a lot has to do
with reproducibility of environments.
So having your dev staging prod
all kind of consistent and built from the same image.
Also some of the flexibility it allows
with regards to like stack and technology.
So it's pretty quick
and easy to raise a new service through Docker container.
What we're figuring out how to do
is orchestrate containers
that becomes the next kind of piece
and not just have a mess of static coded ports
on the various servers.
In terms of versioning,
I'm not sure Docker has like a big impact on versioning.
Like we've been trying to do everything
through source control
where I think trying to get closer
and closer towards infrastructure as code.
So anything such as a Docker file
that you can have version control
that defines how your environment is created.
It's based on those configurations.
It's sort of what we're aiming for.
Great, thank you.
I just want to double check
that I didn't miss anybody's questions.
I think I got to everything that was on Slido.
But again, feel free to raise your hand
if there was something that we missed too.
Thank you so much,
Shabnam, Jamie and Derek for sharing your insights with us
and all your experience.
It's awesome to see how all the teams work together too.
If people wanted to get in touch or reach out to you,
what's the best way to do so?
Is it LinkedIn or Twitter?
Either, I'll drop an email here too.
Okay, awesome.
Yeah, LinkedIn is great.
I think it's on the website already.
Yes, it will be there too.
We will update with Shabnam's information too.
Thank you so much for joining as well.
Appreciate all the great questions too.
Hope everybody has a great rest of the day.
Thank you so much for joining us.